.TH GENV 1 "March 2026" "genv 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
genv \- global environment manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genv
<command> [flags]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Track, sync, and reproduce your software environment across Linux, macOS, and WSL2.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B add <id> [flags]
Add a package to the spec and install it now.
.TP
.B remove <id>
Remove a package from the spec and uninstall it now. Alias: rm.
.TP
.B adopt <id> [flags]
Track an already-installed package in genv.json without reinstalling.
.TP
.B disown <id>
Stop tracking a package in genv.json without uninstalling it.
.TP
.B scan [flags]
Discover all installed packages and bulk-adopt them into genv.json.
.TP
.B status [flags]
Show diff between genv.json, the lock file, and recorded versions.
.TP
.B list
List all packages installed by genv. Alias: ls.
.TP
.B apply [flags]
Reconcile system state with genv.json (install added, remove deleted).
.TP
.B clean [\-\-dry\-run]
Clear the cache of all detected package managers.
.TP
.B edit
Open genv.json in $EDITOR.
.TP
.B version
Show genv build version information.
.TP
.B help
Show this help text.
.SH COMMON FLAGS
.TP
.B \-\-file <path>
Path to genv.json (default: $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/genv/genv.json or ~/.config/genv/genv.json, falling back to ./genv.json)
.SH COMMAND-SPECIFIC FLAGS
.SS add / adopt
.TP
.B \-\-version <ver>
Version constraint, e.g. "0.10.*"
.TP
.B \-\-prefer <mgr>
Preferred manager, e.g. brew
.TP
.B \-\-manager <mgr:name,...>
Manager-specific package names, e.g. flatpak:org.mozilla.firefox,brew:firefox
.SS apply
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the reconcile plan without executing
.TP
.B \-\-strict
Exit with an error if any package cannot be resolved
.TP
.B \-\-yes
Skip the confirmation prompt (for CI and scripts)
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit machine-readable JSON to stdout
.TP
.B \-\-timeout <duration>
Per-subprocess timeout, e.g. 5m or 30s (0 = none)
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Emit debug-level structured logs to stderr
.SS status / scan
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit machine-readable JSON to stdout
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Emit debug-level structured logs to stderr
.SS clean
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the clean commands without executing
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
success (status: all ok or missing only)
.TP
.B 1
bad arguments or unknown command
.TP
.B 2
filesystem or serialisation error
.TP
.B 3
genv.json fails schema validation
.TP
.B 4
semantic error — also returned by 'genv status' when drift or extra entries exist
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/genv/genv.json
The default specification file.
.TP
.B ~/.config/genv/genv.lock.json
The default lock file.
.SH AUTHOR
genv contributors.
